Have you ever heard someone say:
“I’m not religious, but I am spiritual”
or “I don’t need to belong to a religion;
I worship God in my own way”?
Many people believe
that they don’t need to be associated
with a specific religious organization
—that it’s good enough simply to have
a personal relationship with God.
It’s not surprising that they feel that way.
Many religious organizations
have promoted false worship.
They’ve mistreated their followers
or demanded large sums of money from them
and tolerated or even promoted conduct
that the Bible condemns.
Of course, it’s the fruitage
of those organizations that’s bad,
not the fact that they are organized.
But we might still ask,
‘Does Jehovah want his people
to be organized?’
What does his Word say?
The Bible reveals
that the early Christians were organized.
Consider what’s recorded in Acts chapter 15.
An issue arose
—an issue involving doctrine, or belief,
that caused disagreement
among those in the congregation.
How would they settle that issue?
Did they conclude that it was enough
for each Christian
to have his own relationship with God
and for each person
to believe what he personally wanted?
No.
That would have divided
the young Christian congregation,
which at this point
was less than 20 years old.
At Acts 15:2, we read:
“But after quite a bit of dissension
“and disputing by Paul
and Barnabas with them,
“it was arranged for Paul, Barnabas,
“and some of the others
to go up to the apostles
and elders in Jerusalem
regarding this issue.”
The apostles and elders in Jerusalem
made a decision that resolved the issue.
Thereafter, they made their decision known
to the congregations.
This helped to restore peace and unity.
That wasn’t an exceptional case.
Sometime later, the apostle Paul and Timothy
visited the congregations.
What did they accomplish?
Acts 16:4 says:
“As they traveled on through the cities,
“they would deliver to them for observance
“the decrees that had been decided on
by the apostles and the elders
who were in Jerusalem.”
The apostles and elders in Jerusalem
consistently provided
spiritual food, direction,
and practical help for God’s people
in the first century.
They acted as a governing body.
What was the result of such organization?
Note the next verse.
It says: “Then, indeed,
“the congregations
continued to be made firm in the faith
and to increase in number day by day.”
That organization in the first century
helped the early Christians to be united,
productive, and happy.
In like manner,
Jehovah’s people today are organized.
This reflects Jehovah’s personality.
First Corinthians chapter 14,
verses 33 and 40 says in part:
“God is a God not of disorder
“but of peace. . . .
Let all things take place
decently and by arrangement.”
Think about it:
Organization really helps us
to fulfill Jehovah’s requirements
for true worship.
Consider five examples.
First, we must be organized
to meet together for worship.
How could we do so
if we didn’t know one another,
didn’t have designated places
and times to gather together,
and didn’t have
a scheduled program for each meeting?
Second, we must be organized
to be united in belief.
All of us receive the same instruction
at congregation meetings,
assemblies, and conventions,
and we’re helped to understand the Scriptures
through Bible-based publications and videos.
These provisions require organization,
and they help us to worship unitedly and,
as 1 Corinthians 1:10 counsels us,
to “speak in agreement.”
Third, we must be organized
to form a worldwide brotherhood.
First Peter 2:17 reminds us
that we belong
to an “association of brothers.”
If we weren’t organized,
how could we even identify those
who are truly part of our spiritual family?
Fourth, we must be organized
to preach the good news
to people of different nations,
tribes, and languages.
How could we possibly
declare the Kingdom message
thoroughly and effectively
if we weren’t associated
with an organization?
Fifth, we must be organized
to provide disaster relief.
Just as the early Christians
had an arrangement to supply financial aid
to their needy brothers and sisters
in other lands,
so we are organized
to help our brothers and sisters
as soon as possible after a disaster,
disease outbreak, or other emergency.
As was the case in the first century,
the Governing Body today
provides spiritual food, direction,
and practical help
for God’s people around the world.
Jesus has appointed that Governing Body
to be “the faithful and discreet slave.”
How grateful we are that Jehovah,
through our Leader, Jesus Christ,
has organized us so that we can do God’s will
as a united brotherhood!